Chapter Objectives for Routing Protocols and Concepts CCNA Exploration v4

Upon completion of this course, you should be able to thoroughly answer the Chapter Objective questions. 
The questions are provided here for you in .txt format to use as an outline to take notes 
in a handwritten or electronic journal. 

Chapter 1 Introduction to Routing and Packet Forwarding

What features do routers and computers have in common?
How do you configure Cisco devices and apply addresses?
Can you describe the basic structure of a routing table?
Can you describe, in detail, how a router determines the best path and then switches a packet?

Chapter 2 Static Routing

What is the role of a router in the network?
Can you describe the relationship between router interfaces, directly connected networks, and the routing table?
How can CDP be used with directly connected networks?
How can static routes be used with exit interfaces?
Can you describe the use and configuration of summary and default routes?
How do packets get forwarded using static routes?
What commands would you use to manage and troubleshoot static routes?

Chapter 3 Introduction to Dynamic Routing Protocols

Can you describe the role of dynamic routing protocols and place these protocols in the context of modern network design?
What are several ways to classify routing protocols?
How are metrics used by routing protocols, and what are the metric types used by dynamic routing protocols?
How do you determine the administrative distance of a route, and what is its importance in the routing process?
What are the different elements in the routing table?
Given realistic constraints, can you devise and apply subnetting schemes?

Chapter 4 Distance Vector Routing Protocols

Can you identify the characteristics of distance vector routing protocols?
What is the network discovery process of distance vector routing protocols using Routing Information Protocol (RIP)?
What is the processes for maintaining accurate routing tables that are used by distance vector routing protocols?
What are the conditions leading to a routing loop, and can you explain the implications for router performance?
Which types of distance vector routing protocols are in use today?

Chapter 5 RIP Version 1

What are the functions, characteristics, and operation of the RIPv1 protocol?
Can you configure a device for RIPv1?
Can you verify proper RIPv1 operations?
How does RIPv1 perform automatic summarization?
Can you configure, verify, and troubleshoot default routes propagated in a routed network implanting RIPv1?
What are the recommended techniques to solve problems related to RIPv1?

Chapter 6 VLSM and CIDR

What are the differences between classful and classless IP addressing?
What is VLSM, and what are the benefits of classless IP addressing?
What is the role of the classless interdomain routing (CIDR) standard in making efficient use of scarce IPv4 addresses?

Chapter 7 RIPv2

As a classful routing protocol, what are the limitations of RIPv1?
What are the basic configuration commands used to apply Routing Information Protocol version 2 (RIPv2), and how do you evaluate RIPv2 classless routing updates?
How do you analyze router output to see RIPv2 support for variable-length subnet masking (VLSM) and classless interdomain routing (CIDR)?
Which commands are used to verify RIPv2 and identify common issues?
What are the commands used to configure, verify, and troubleshoot RIPv2?

Chapter 8 The Routing Table: A Closer Look

What are the various route types found in the routing table structure?
What is the route lookup process?
How would you describe the typical routing behavior in a routed network?

Chapter 9 EIGRP

What is the background and history of EIGRP?
What are the features and operations of EIGRP?
What commands are used in configuring basic EIGRP, and what are their purposes?
How is the composite metric calculated for EIGRP?
What are the concepts and operation of DUAL?
Which additional commands can be used in the configuration of EIGRP, and what are their uses?

Chapter 10 Link-State Routing Protocols

What are the basic features and concepts of link-state routing protocols?
What are the benefits and requirements of link-state routing protocols?

Chapter 11 OSPF

What is the history and background of OSPF?
What are the basic features of OSPF?
Can you describe, modify, and calculate the metric used by OSPF?
What is the Designated Router and Backup Designate Backup Router process in multiaccess networks?
How is the default-information originate command configured in OSPF to propagate a default route?
